# playstore-data-analysis

I received two different dataset named playstore data and user review data. Playstore data has 13 columns which is 'App', 'Category', 'Rating', 'Reviews', 'Size', 'Installs', 'Type', 'Price', 'Content Rating', 'Genres', 'Last Updated', 'Current Ver','Android Ver'. User review data has 5 columns which is 'App', 'Translated_Review', 'Sentiment', 'Sentiment_Polarity' and 'Sentiment_Subjectivity'. I initiated with the Playstore data and did Data Cleaning followed by the Data preprocessing, afterwards did the same procedure on User review dataset. Then I proceeded with Exploratory Data Analysis where I tried Answering certain business problems. Following are the conclusion of the Analysis:

First we found out the percentage share of apps of each category on playstore.Family has the highest percentage share followed by Games and tools. Still analysis showed user tends to install Games more than any other type of apps. Games and communication has the maximum numbers of installs. when we compare rating with category, we can say that almost all the categories has similar rating.As rating increases installation of applications also increases.Using rating we found out the popular appplications amongst different age groups.From the analysis,it is clearly seen that 92% (8896) of applications on google play store are free and 8% (753) are paid. When it comes to paid app , Minecraft has generated the maximum revenue of $69900000. Most of the applications  belongs to “Everyone” which means not restricted to age are installed more in free as well as paid type of applications.Focusing more on content available for Everyone, will increase the chances of getting the highest installs.We find out the correlation between size and installations.Size has not really impacted the installations of applications. Majority of the applications are insize 10 to 20 mb or below 1 mb. We compared reviews of free apps that are compatible with every Android device We can conclude that "Facebook", "WhatsApp Messenger", "Instagram" are the top three apps have highest reviews. We also found any correlation between all the columns and we found that installs and reviews are highly correlated, which concludes that a high number of installs has the highest number of reviews.  

When we analysed the sentiments and found out total percentage share for all the positive negative and neutral sentiments for all the applications on playstore.Later we compared them to find out which application received highest postitive sentiments and which application on playstore received highest no of negative sentiments. 


